Welcome to Introduction to Regression.
After watching this video, you will be able to
Define regression, Compare simple and multiple regression
Explain applications of regression
Regression is a type of supervised learning model.
It models a relationship between a continuous
target variable and explanatory features.
Consider this dataset related to CO2 emissions from different cars.
The features in this dataset include engine size,
number of cylinders, fuel consumption,
and CO2 emissions from various automobile models.
Given this dataset, is it possible to predict the
CO2 emission of a new car from the listed
features?
The answer is yes.
Using potentially predictive features,
you can use regression to predict a continuous
value, such as CO2 emissions.
Let's consider the previous dataset
comprising some features in past cars.
Then, from that data, a model can be
trained to estimate the CO2 emissions of each car.
Let's use regression to build such a predictive model.
Then, the model is used to predict the
expected CO2 emission for a new or hypothetical car.
There are several types of regression.
Deciding which one to use depends on the
data you have for the dependent variable and the
type of model that provides the best fit.
In this video, we'll discuss the following
two types of regression models, simple regression
and multiple regression.
Simple regression is when a single independent
variable estimates a dependent variable.
Simple regression can be linear or nonlinear.
For example, predicting CO2 emission using
the variable engine size.
Simple linear regression imposes a linear
relationship between the dependent and independent
variables.
Similarly, nonlinear regression creates a
nonlinear relationship between those variables.
When more than one independent variable is present,
the process is called multiple regression.
The distinctions between linear and nonlinear
relationships apply to simple and multiple
regression.
For example, predicting CO2 emission using
engine size and the number of cylinders in
any given car.
Again, depending on the relation between
dependent and independent variables, it can be either
linear or nonlinear regression.
Let's examine some sample applications of regression.
Essentially, we use regression when we want
to estimate a continuous value.
For instance, one of the applications of
regression analysis could be in the area of sales forecasting.
You can predict a salesperson's yearly sales
from independent variables, such as
customers, number of leads, and order history.
Regression analysis can predict the price of
a house in an area based on its size, number
of bedrooms, and so on.
You can use regression analysis to predict
when an automobile or an industrial machine
will require maintenance rather than waiting for it to fail.
You can even use it to predict employment
income from independent variables, such as
hours of work, education, occupation, sex, age,
years of experience, and so on.
Indeed, you can find many examples of the
usefulness of regression analysis in these
and many other fields or domains, such as
finance, healthcare, and retail.
Let's examine additional sample applications of regression.
You can use regression to estimate the rainfall
in a region based on meteorological factors,
such as temperature, humidity, wind speed,
and air pressure.
It can also be used in the field of environmental
protection, for example, to determine the
probability and severity of wildfires.
In public health, you can use regression
analysis to predict the spread of infectious diseases.
You can even use it to estimate the likelihood
of developing diseases, such as diabetes,
heart disease, or cancer, based on patient data.
There are many regression algorithms.
Each algorithm is important in the appropriate
context and suited to specific conditions.
Linear and polynomial regression are classical
statistical modeling methods, while random
forest and XGBoost are modern machine learning regression models.
Other modern regression algorithms include
k-nearest neighbors, support vector machines,
and neural networks.
In this video, you learned regression is a
machine-learning technique that models a relationship
between a continuous target variable and explanatory features.
Simple regression is when a single independent
variable estimates a dependent variable.
This regression can be linear or nonlinear.
When more than one independent variable is present,
the process is called multiple regression.
There are many applications of regression.
You can use it to forecast sales, predict
maintenance expenses, estimate rainfall,
and spread of infectious disease.